# ECON202-Statistics-for-Economics
First, as part of the economics major, I was required to take Economics-202: Statistics for Economics. This served as my “Foundations” sector of the Data Science minor. While this topic is critical for success in the upper-level electives of the economics major, it is also important for any career that relies on empirical research in the social sciences. 

Economics-202 focused on the fundamentals of probability, statistics, estimation, and hypothesis testing. It ended with an introduction to regression analysis. I learned how to think formally about data, uncertainty, and random processes, while learning hands-on methods to organize and analyze real data using modern statistical software. Specifically, through formal modeling, I gained an understanding of the nature of randomness and its implications for empirical investigation. Many examples came through hands-on labs using Stata. 

Ultimately, Economics-202 culminated with a large project. As a result, I interpreted and critically evaluated statistical results derived from sampling distributions, hypothesis testing, and linear regression. Using Stata, we answered the question: “How important are factors like income, education, gender, and race/ethnicity on one’s self-reported health (SRH) condition?” These answers help health professionals prioritize creating healthier societies. 

Our regression results determined that the main factors impacting SRH were education and gender. While all but one of the endogenous variables we looked at yielded statistically significant results, education was the only variable to yield clinically relevant results. Our research highlights the importance of providing equal access to educational opportunities to better health equity.
